Dr. John McGee proposed the use of Gentle Teaching as a non-aversive
technique for dealing with people who exhibit challenging behaviours. He
was brought to Canada by The Roeher Institute to provide alternative
approaches to punishment used and accepted in the past to curtail
aggressiv and self-injurious behaviour. These included the use of cattle
prods, noxious substances, and physical and mechanical restraints. Gentle
Teaching focuses on three main assumptions:

. A human being has inherent value that is not contingent upon
productivity or behaviour;

. A person's participation with another person has value that is not
linked to, nor contingent upon, the person's ability to complete a
structured task;

. Human interaction is reciprocal in nature and people can be taught a
process of reciprocity.

These assumptions are based upon the idea of bonding and friendship that
is typified by trust and security. McGee sees bonding and friendship as
the bases for a relationship between a person and the caregiver. It is
through our relationships with others that we work past a person's
challenging behaviour.
Our desire for changing a person's behaviour is secondary to the care
and respect we have to show for the individual. Developing a trusting
relationship is specific to each person and the relationship is not
transferable to other caregivers. Each caregiver must make his own bond
with the person.

We attended a week-long workshop in Nova Scotia on Gentle Teaching and
began to think that Sue could benefit from this alternative approach. It
was our hope that by offering a workshop at the school, and by involving
the people closely associated with Sue, we might he able to get beyond
Sue's agressive behaviour to a point where we could establish meaningful
interactions with her.




