//behaviour to see her as a person who had a bad temper. <-- page 267
As the year progressed students, instead of moving away from Sue when she
was angry, drew close. When Sue was frustrated with work, they would
provide encouragement. When she was angry they would stand near her. They
had learned that being close helped her and, as one student joked, "`If
she went to hit you, she couldn't hit as hard in close.`" Consequently,
it was not unusual to see a group of kids around Sue as they walked the
busy corridors to their next class.

At the end of the year, we interviewed some of the students who had been
with Sue. From these discussions some common themes emerged:

. The students liked making a commitment to Sue. Out of the twenty-ﬁve
students who started, only two left the group. The students in the
support group saw students who were not in the group as outsiders. When
asked if they felt it was a job they had to do, students replied, "`No,
it wasn't. We were doing something for her,`" and "`No, it was like being
with anyone else in the class`".

. They felt that they were contributors to Sue and their class. Students
felt they were not asked often enough to help other students in school.
"`We could do a lot more if we were given the chance,`" one student said.
"`My mother says that I am good with other kids. It's something that I
already have.`"

. Most of the students derived satisfaction from their relationship with
Sue. Her peers described the experience as "`fun because you get to laugh
with Sue about things.`"
Another student drew satisfaction from the experience, saying, "`It's
nice when she says your name.`" Students commented on feeling bad when
they were away from school or had other commitments which prevented them
from being with Sue.




