//with novel and innovative ways to meet student needs. <-- page 235
Education is seen as a dynamic and flexible process constantly attuned to
the needs of the learners. The adhocratic school has a problem-solving
focus, involving collaboration among a number of professionals who pool
their skills as peers in the group. In this system, teachers have the
freedom to problem solve without fear of criticism. They can also develop
confidence that the system is flexible enough to allow innovative solutions
to he implemented. In addition, the range of feasible solutions is mostly
increased.

We have found teacher collaboration in the form of peer problem-solving
teams helpful as we work to integrate students with disabilities into
regular classrooms in our schools. The process provides a way to help
teachers develop strategies to instruct students who do not easily fit
the standard curriculum or instructional assumptions. Peer problem-solving
teams have helped us promote the goals of inclusionary schooling. A
commitment to collaboration is needed to create schools where mutual
support in solving problems prevails.

==== REFERENCES
Axelrod, S., L. Moyer and B. Berry. (1990). Why teachers do not use
behaviour modification procedures. _Journal of Educational and
Psychological Consultation, 1(2). pp. 309-320.

Canelli, A. A. and S.M. Lange. (1990). Considerations for future research
in the institutionalization of school-based consultation. _Journal of
Educational and Psychological Consultation_, 1(1), pp. 87-98.

Chalfant, J.C., M. Pysh and R. Moultrie. (1979). Teacher assistance teams:
A model for within-building problem solving. _Learning Disabilities Quarterly_,
2(3). pp. 85-96.






