[arabic,start=3]
. There should he a facilitator (generally a teacher) who helps coach
students along. In building intentional communities, another term for
support groups, John McNight (cited in O'Connell, 1988) calls this person
a guide. This is the key person who helps pull things together. The guide
is not a director and is not more important than other group members but
is someone to help the group put their ideas into practice.

. The group may need to meet regularly. This can be at lunch or at a
special outing. The purpose of the meetings is to structure the group
enough, at the beginning, to encourage a sense of unity and a spirit of
interaction. The meetings are a forum where people get to know one
another better; the group then provides an opportunity to break the
rigidity of existing peer cliques and to form new relationships. When
people become accustomed to meeting they will continue, generally with
little encouragement or direction.

==== GENTLE TEACHING IN THE CLASSROOM

Total inclusion in Sue's school meant that, at some level, everyone in
her school interacted with her. Students, through the peer group, were
developing friendships with Sue, but most adults were uncomfortable
working directly with Sue because of her challenging behaviour. As a
result, only a few people who had "`ways of dealing with her`" had
developed a relationship with her. Given her challenging behaviour, they
were perceived as having some special ability. We needed to give adults
a way to develop good relationships with her.

We chose Gentle Teaching (McGee et al, 1987), which presented a set of
common strategies to facilitate meaningful dialogue between Sue and those
who worked with her in the school. It enabled people to work with Sue to
control and redirect her challenging behaviour, which in turn improved
their relationships with her.






